== Supervised Machine Learning for Fake News Detection ==
Visit our wiki at http://wiki.sinfronteras.ws/view/Supervised_Machine_Learning_for_Fake_News_Detection to know more about this project.

Try the Fake News Detector Web App at http://fakenewsdetector.sinfronteras.ws


<br />
<br />
<span style="background:#E6E6FA ">'''In this project, we have created a Supervised Machine Learning Model for Fake News Detection based on three different algorithms:'''</span>
*Naive Bayes, Support Vector Machine and Gradient Boosting (XGBoost).


<br />
<br />
'''This repository''' contains a R Library we have created to package the Machine Learning Models built. This package contains essentially three functions: '''modelNB()''',  '''modelSVM()''' and '''modelXGBoost()'''. These functions take a news article as argument and, using the Models created, return the authenticity tag («fake (1)» or «reliable (0)»):
**'''modelNB():''' Based on the the Naive Bayes Model.
**'''modelSVM():''' Based on the Support Vector Machine Model.
**'''modelXGBoost():''' Based on the Extreme Gradient Boosting Model.


<br />
<br />
<span style="background:#E6E6FA ">''' Along with this repository, the other final result of this project is:'''</span>
*<span style="color:#FF0000">'''http://fakenewsdetector.sinfronteras.ws'''</span>: This is the link to a Web Application that has been created to easily interact with the Machine Learning Models created. It allows us to determine if a News Article is Fake or Reliable by entering the text into an input field. The input text will be processed by the Machine Learning Models at the back-end and the result will be sent back to the client. This Web App was created using [http://shiny.rstudio.com/ Shiny], an R package that can be used to build interactive web apps straight from R.


<br />
<br />
<span style="background:#E6E6FA "> '''The accuracy of the model:'''</span>
*The Machine Learning Model created (using the Gradient Boosting algorithm) was able to determine the reliability of News Articles with an accuracy of '''78.86%''' we show the accuracy we got for all the models created.


<br />
<br />
<span style="background:#E6E6FA "> '''What we call Fake News in this project:'''</span>
*Deliberately distorted information that secretly leaked into the communication process in order to deceive and manipulate (Vladmir Bitman).
*Therefore, our Machine Learning Models are only able to detect this kind of disinformation: '''Fake News Articles that were''' <span style="color:#FF0000">'''deliberately'''</span> '''created in order to deceive and manipulate'''


